the solar system apart from its planets
is chock-full of celestial bodies some
roughly the size of a person others
bigger than cities let's take a look at
them some of the smallest asteroids in
the belt between Mars and Jupiter range
from several feet to several dozen feet
interestingly these usually don't fly
away from their positions in the belt
since they gravitate toward their bigger
colleagues even if it's an asteroid the
size of a car there are much larger ones
and normally the bigger the body the
stronger is gravity with asteroids it's
especially true because most of them are
made of rock which has high density and
mass still all those smaller asteroids
aren't a rarity there are much larger
ones these could potentially pose a
threat to our planet if they decided to
fly off course and aim at earth instead
but the thing is that they probably
won't most asteroids that we detect
homing in on us are rogue benta they're
blasted away by some force which makes
them leave their normal orbit and fly
unpredictably through space with objects
the size of a whole town and amassed a
match it's no easy trick to push them
around the orbit they're following lies
between the gravity of the Sun and that
of Jupiter so the asteroid belt is in a
perfect balance it would take a really
powerful force to tip those scales like
that of another huge asteroid colliding
with them that's unlikely to happen
though because despite what Hollywood
pictures in sci-fi movies show the
asteroid belt is a vast and mostly quite
empty space there are millions upon
millions of miles between any two
neighboring asteroids so if we ever
decide to really send piloted spacecraft
further than Mars the pilots won't have
any trouble dodging these chunks of
space rock anyway even if some
incredible collision happens and one of
these great asteroids start moving
toward us there's an
other barrier to protect our planet Mars
and the moon although dozens if not
hundreds of smaller meteoroids fall on
the surface of earth every year most of
them either burn up in the atmosphere or
end up in the ocean far away from human
dwellings but the brunt of the impact is
taken by the two huge celestial bodies
between us and the asteroid belt
they have gravity of their own and if an
asteroid flies by close enough it'll
change its trajectory and fall on their
surface instead finally what happens if
one of these huge bodies somehow avoids
the pull of Mars on the moon
it's a flyby the chance of an asteroid
whatever its size aiming directly at the
earth is miniscule that means very small
but if it's close enough we might be
able to watch it pass by us which is
quite awesome if you ask me but you're
probably waiting for me to tell you what
will happen to our planet if an asteroid
by some wild whim of the cosmos actually
finds its way to earth well nothing good
that's for sure the meteorite that led
to the extinction of the dinosaurs some
65 million years ago was only 69 miles
in diameter and it caused extreme chaos
if something bigger lands on us well you
can kiss your asteroid goodbye but
anyway like I already said asteroids
don't fly off the orbit of their own
accord so you can sleep tight knowing
that something like Ceres will never go
far away from its post in the asteroid
belt
[Music]